Welcome back.
So carry on from the last lesson we launched an easy to instance into our VPC within a region and we
have an Internet gateway attached to this VPC.
And what we need to do now is we're going to connect using our Internet clients.
So we're going to connect from our own computers to the two instance that we launched on Adewusi.
So let's head back to the console.
Back in the console here, we can see that we have our instance.
We can see that it's running.
It's past its status checks, which is good.
That means everything is operational.
Now, one of the things we can do here is we click connect.
It actually gives us some information.
As you can see, there are a few ways you can connect.
We've got the easy to instance connect session manager, which uses another service enable us.
We're not going to use that.
And then each client.
So the SSA client is one of the most common ways to connect to our two instances.
Now, we can see here actually gives us some information.
It tells us that we need to run this command.
Now, this is specific to Linux or Mac.
So if you're running a Linux or Mac, you need to run this command and then you can connect to your
instance using this address.
So this is the public DNS name.
Remember, your instance will have a public IP address.
It also has a public DNS name.
So this is a name that can be resolved to that IP address.
Now, it then gives us an example and the example is actually filled out for us.
So it shows us that we're running a command SSA.
So this is the secure shell and Dashi, the dashi is indicating that we need to supply the name of our
Kuyper.
So this is R.P.M. four that we created in the last lesson.
And we then connect to easy to use.
And that's the user on the instance.
So it's called easy to dash user and that's for the Amazon Linux operating system.
Then there's an app sign and then this is that public DNS name that you can see here.
So that's the way that we're going to connect.
For instance.
Now this again is for Linux and Mac.
We're then going to connect via Windows.
Now, depending on your Windows operating system, you might also have an associate's utility.
I'll show you.
It's very much the same command.
And also on Windows, if you don't have an associate's utility or you prefer to use putty, that's another
way.
And I'm going to show you how to use Putsy as well.
So what I'm going to do is unmilitary.
Just going to copy this entire command, cancel out of there and go over to a command prompt.
So I'm on a command prompt.
And I know that in this directory I do have my keypad, so I'm going to run this command, says SNH
Dash.
I then the key person, make sure that you've changed to a directory on your file system where you stored
the PM file, otherwise it won't work.
Now let's just hit enter.
Now, there will be an error message here because I wanted to show you I haven't run the command, which
I'm supposed to first.
So let's try and connect.
It's asking us to type yes or no.
I'm going to type yes.
And then we get an issue.
And it's basically saying that we have an unprotected private keeper.
So the key file and so what we need to do is run a certain command if we come back.
Remember, it was actually recommending that command to us.
That command is not just copy that Mod 400 Sydney Dash keep add up.
And that's the name of my keep our files might be different.
So we're changing the permissions assigned to that file.
So let's come back.
We're going to run this command that's run.
I'm just going to clear the screen and bring this down to the middle and then let's rerun the command
to connect via SNH and that's it.
We are now on our operating system in the cloud.
So we're now able to run commands on our Linux operating system on Adewusi.
And we can see at the command prompt here that it shows us who were connected and it says easy to dash.
I remember that's the user account.
We connect it as we specified that back up here.
And then it shows us the IP address.
But this is the private IP address of the instance, not the public IP address.
So now we can run commands.
For instance, we could run pseudo youm updates to run updates on our operating system, and that's
complete.
So now we have our all of our packages updated on our operating system.
So that's how it works.
Now, what we're going to do is we're going to see how we would do the same thing if our client's operating
system is Windows instead of Linux or Mac.
So what I've done to demonstrate this to you is I'm actually running a Windows server in another region
and in this case it's Singapore.
So I'm running a window server in Singapore.
And from this Windows Server, I want to connect to my Linux instance in Sydney.
So let's see how we can do that.
Now, as I mentioned before, there are a couple of ways so we can actually run S.H. commands.
On this Windows server, depending on your client operating system, it may not have the utility installed.
But if I type S.H., you can see that we actually have a necesito utility now.
Also note, I have my key PDF file here so I can run SNH dash, I, I'm going to drag in this keypad
file so I get the path to the file.
And this is the key profile, obviously, for my ACSU instance in Sydney, and then what I need to do
is run to dash user at and I need to get the public IP address or DNS name of my easy to instant's.
So back in the consult with my instant selected, I'm just going to copy the public IP address, come
back and paste that in here, enter.
And unconnected, so I'm now connected into my Linux instance, so it's that simple.
Now, you might not have this utility installed, so I'm going to show you another way.
Let's go to Internet Explorer.
I'm going to head over to Google and then search for Putti download.
So putting is a tool that we can use.
Let's just click on this link here and let's click on Download Party.
I'm going to choose to install the 64 bit version of the mouse I click on Run and that's just go through
this wizard just leaving the defaults and click on install and finish.
So once that's done, what we can do now is firstly the putting tool does not use RPM files, it uses
PPK files.
Remember earlier I told you that if you launched your instance with a PPK file and you can create those
in the console by going down to the keypads in the left hand pane of the management console, then would
be able to use that file.
But we didn't.
We used to RPM.
So now we need to convert it to a PPK.
So the first thing we do is let's find the putty folder and let's choose to use Putti again.
So this will generate a PPK file.
So what we do is we click on load, let's go to our desktop.
We need to change here to all files so that we can see the EPM file.
And let's click on Open, just like that message and then let's click on click on Save Private Key.
And now it's going to create this PPK file.
So I'm going to call this one Sedney.
That's Kepi.
But in this case, it's going to be a PPK file.
So let's save that file and close partition.
So we've now got this ready.
So the next thing to do is go back to party and we're going to use the pundits all itself.
That is a few things we need to do here.
So first, we come down to Conexion, S.H., come down to earth and then you see private key file for
authentication here.
We need to choose the file that we just created.
So we've got to choose this PPK file.
Click on Open.
Let's come back up to session here at the top.
We need to have SNH selected.
We so again have the hostname or IP address.
I've already got mine in my clipboard and then we need to make sure that we put in easy to dash user
at the beginning.
Remember, this is important for Amazon, Linux and then at so we should have easy to dash user at and
the IP address Port 22 and we've loaded our private key file.
So let's click on Open and there we are, we're on our Linux instant's.
So that's another way to connect to our Linux instant's on aways from a Windows client.
So you've got two options there to use the S.H. utility in your operating system, if it's there or
otherwise use putty.
So that's it for this lesson.
Let's go back now and we're going to terminate our instance because we've finished with it back in the
console.
We can now go to Instant State Termini instance and click on Terminate and that's successfully terminated
our instance.
So I hope you enjoyed that.
And I'll see you in the next lesson.